# NKN: a Scalable Self-Evolving and Self-Incentivized Decentralized Network

> A project aiming to rebuild the Internet that will be truly open,
  decentralized, dynamic, safe, shared and owned by the community.

[![nkn.org](img/nkn_logo.png)](https://nkn.org/)

[https://nkn.org/](https://nkn.org/)

Welcome to NKN! Watch a [2-minutes video of NKN
concept](https://youtu.be/cT29i3-ImQk) to get started.

[![NKN Introduction](img/nkn_intro_video.png)](https://youtu.be/cT29i3-ImQk)

## Table of Contents

- [Abstract](#abstract)
- [Challenges of Network Infrastructure](#challenges-of-network-infrastructure)
  - [P2P Network Limitation](#p2p-network-limitation)
  - [Resource Utilization](#resource-utilization)
  - [Net Neutrality](#net-neutrality)
- [Vision](#vision)
  - [Objectives](#objectives)
  - [The Third Pillar](#the-third-pillar)
  - [Elementary Components](#elementary-components)
  - [Networking toolkit](#networking-toolkit)
- [Technology Foundations](#technology-foundations)
  - [Cellular Automata](#cellular-automata)
  - [Rules as Formulas](#rules-as-formulas)
- [New Kind of Network](#new-kind-of-network)
  - [Decentralized Data Transmission Network](#decentralized-data-transmission-network)
  - [A Useful Proof of Work](#a-useful-proof-of-work)
  - [Network Topology and Routing](#network-topology-and-routing)
  - [Efficient Decentralization](#efficient-decentralization)
- [Cellular Automata Powered Consensus](#cellular-automata-consensus)
  - [CA Consensus Modelled by Ising](#ca-consensus-modelled-by-ising)
  - [Majority Vote Cellular Automata](#majority-vote-cellular-automata)
  - [Proof of Relay](#proof-of-relay)
  - [Potential Attacks](#potential-attacks)
- [Conclusions](#conclusions)


## Abstract

NKN is a new generation of highly scalable, self-evolving and
self-incentivized blockchain network infrastructure. NKN addresses the
network decentralization and self-evolution by introducing Cellular
Automata (CA) methodology. NKN tokenizes network connectivity and data
transmission capacity by a novel and useful Proof of Work. NKN focuses
on decentralizing network resources, similar to how Bitcoin and
Ethereum decentralize computing power as well as how IPFS and Filecoin
decentralize storage. Together, they form the three pillars of the
Internet infrastructure for next generation blockchain systems. NKN
ultimately makes the network more decentralized, efficient, equalized,
robust and secure, thus enabling healthier, safer, and more open
Internet.


## Challenges of Network Infrastructure

After years of transmutation, the Internet is in danger of losing its
original vision and spirit. For example, Network Neutrality is
overturned; spectrum and bandwidth are not efficiently utilized;
information is fragmented and can be censored; privacy protection is
limited. These signal that the network needs a reform. Existing
solutions are not suitable for next generation blockchain systems due
to the following reasons:

- Utilize a centralized approach to improve efficiency.

- Sacrifice the scalability of the network to speed up consensus.

- Limit participation rate of nodes or require authorization to
  increase "security".

- Use purely financial motivations or trusted third parties to solve
  problems which should be solved by mathematics and technology.

### P2P Network Limitation

Peer-to-peer (P2P) networks currently face several major challenges,
which are the opportunities for NKN. First static network topology is
vulnerable to faulty and malicious attack. Second, there is no
economic self-incentivized scheme for network connectivity and data
transmission. Finally, network scalability is widely sacrificed to
enhance controllability.

### Resource Utilization

A highly reliable, secure and diverse Internet is essential to
everyone. Yet, huge inefficiency exists in the current network when
providing global connectivity and information transmission. It's time
to rebuild the network we want, not just patch the network we have. A
fully decentralized and anonymous peer-to-peer system offers huge
potential in terms of improved efficiency, sustainability and safety
for industry and society.

### Net Neutrality

When the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved a measure to
remove the net neutrality rules by the end of 2017, a demand of ending
our reliance on big telecommunication monopolies and building
decentralized, affordable, locally owned Internet infrastructure
becomes ever stronger. The unrestricted and private Internet access
environment is becoming unsustainable under an endless stream of
attacks and blockage, leading to selective and biased information
propagation. Without a proper incentivizing engagement scheme, it is
almost impossible to maintain a constant and secured information
propagation channel.

Furthermore, Internet has become fragmented due to various
reasons. This not only exacerbates separation but also negatively
impacts innovation of science, technology and economy.

## Vision

NKN intends to revolutionize the entire network technology and
business. NKN wants to be the Uber or Airbnb of the trillion-dollar
communication service business, but without a central entity. NKN
aspires to free the bits, and build the Internet we always wanted.

### Objectives

NKN sets the following objectives:

- Any node can connect to this fully open network from any place

- Promote network sharing

- Secure net neutrality from network layer innovations

- Always keep network open and scalable

- Perform efficient and dynamic routing

- Tokenize network connectivity and data transmission assets and
  incentivize participating nodes

- Design and build the next generation of blockchain network

### The Third Pillar

By blockchainizing the third and probably the last pillar of Internet
infrastructure, NKN will revolutionize the blockchain ecosystem by
innovating on the network layer, after Bitcoin and Ethereum
blockchainized computing power as well as IPFS and Filecoin
blockchainized storage. The next generation blockchains based on NKN
are capable of supporting new kind of decentralized applications
(DApp) which have much more powerful connectivity and transmission
capability. The vision of NKN is not only to revolutionize the
decentralized network layers, but also to develop core technologies
for the next generation blockchain.

### Elementary Components

NKN builds upon several innovative elementary components that are
different from existing solutions.

- Blockchainizing the remaining core building blocks of computing
  infrastructure.

- Cellular Automata powered decentralized data transmission network
  (DDTN).

- Cellular Automata driven consensus.

- Proof of Relay, A Useful Proof of Work.

- Tokenization of network connectivity and data transmission
  capability.

- Networking toolkit for fast and painless DApp development.

### Networking toolkit

With NKN, DApp developers now have a new networking toolkit to build
truly decentralized applications rapidly and painlessly. DApp
developers can focus entirely on the ideas and innovation, UI (user
interface) /UX (user experience), and business logic that make their
product successful to the end users. They no longer need to wade
through the wild jungle of blockchain, cryptography, consensus
mechanism, identity and security before they even write one line of
code for their users.

For example, in traditional app development with centralized SaaS
(Software as a Service) offerings, one can host app on cloud computing
platforms, store data on cloud storage, use web services for text
message, phone call and payment. In the decentralized blockchain
world, it is already conceivable today to build a new kind of Facebook
by using Ethereum /NEO for computing, IPFS for storage, and NKN for
networking. The beauty of this new paradigm is that users will
personally own their identity and data, and can be both consumer and
provider in the entire system as well. On top of that, at each layer
there are built-in self-incentivized mechanism to maximize the network
effect and bootstrap the entire community.

NKN will be one of the three foundational elements and play a critical
role in this decentralized paradigm.

## Technology Foundations

NKN utilizes microscopic rules based on Cellular Automata to define
network topology, achieves self-evolution behaviors, and explores
Cellular Automata driven consensus, which is fundamentally different
from existing blockchain network layer.

As a powerful tool to study complex systems, Cellular Automaton is
closely linked to philosophical categories such as simple and complex,
micro and macro, local and global, finite and infinite, discrete and
continuous, etc.

### Cellular Automata

Cellular Automata (CA) is a state machine with a collection of nodes,
each changing its state following a local rule that only depends on
its neighbors. Each node only has a few neighbor nodes. Propagating
through local interactions, local states will eventually affect the
global behavior of CA. The desired openness of network is determined
by the homogeneity of Cellular Automata where all nodes are identical,
forming a fully decentralized P2P (peer-to-peer) network. Each node in
the NKN network is constantly updating based on its current state as
well as the states of neighbors. The neighbors of each node are also
dynamically changing so that the network topology is also dynamic
without changing its underlying infrastructure and protocols.

NKN utilizes CA to achieve efficient, decentralized, and dynamical
topology such that information and data can be transmitted efficiently
and dynamically without centralized connectivity.

### Rules as Formulas

The Cellular Automata programming formula is called "local rule",
which is an indispensable rule for next generation network of NKN and
has an important influence on the network topology. Proper choice of
local rules leads to Cellular Automata with complex but self-organized
behaviors on the boundary between stability and chaos. Rules are
essential because they are formulas to program Cellular Automata and
Automata Networks.

The NKN team believes CA-based or CA-driven systems are more natural
and organic than current approaches utilizing static and fully
connected topology. Complex systems with such a simple structure are
closer to natural systems, thus enabling self-evolution.

## New Kind of Network

NKN is the next generation of peer to peer network infrastructure
built upon blockchain technology backed by Cellular Automata theory
aiming at revolutionizing the Internet with true decentralization and
native token incentive mechanism.


### Decentralized Data Transmission Network

NKN introduced the concept of Decentralized Data Transmission Network
(DDTN). DDTN combines multiple independent and self-organized relay
nodes to provide clients with connectivity and data transmission
capability. This coordination is decentralized and does not require
trust of any involved parties. The secure operation of NKN is achieved
through a consensus mechanism that coordinates and validates the
operations performed by each node. DDTN provides a variety of
strategies for decentralized application (DApp).

In contrast to centralized network connectivity and data transmission,
there are multiple efficient paths between nodes in DDTN, which can be
used to enhance data transmission capacity. Native tokens can
incentivize the sharing of network resources, and eventually minimize
wasted connectivity and bandwidth. Such a property is termed
"self-incentivized".

### A Useful Proof of Work

As the pioneering cryptocurrency, Bitcoin is generated by mining, a
Proof of Work mechanism that incentivizes miners to verify
transactions by solving difficult hashing problems. The downside of
Bitcoin mining is that efficient mining requires specialized and
expensive hardware and consumes a lot of energy. According to
Digiconomist, Bitcoin energy consumption rate is close to 50 TWh/year
at mid February 2018 and still increasing, while the number is close
to 14 TWh/year for Ethereum. Electricity consumed by these two
cryptocurrencies combined has surpassed the electricity usage of many
countries.

A way to prove the work while avoiding waste of resources is highly
desired. NKN proposes an alternative to the current PoW by providing a
more decentralized, dynamically evolving, self-organizing and
self-evolving network infrastructure and designing a whole new set of
consensus mechanisms. The novel PoW does not result in a waste of
resources. Instead, it is a peer-to-peer sharing mechanism at
blockchain level. Participants receive rewards by contributing more
network resources than they consume. NKN uses Proof of Relay mechanism
to guarantee network connectivity and data transmission capacity.

### Network Topology and Routing

Cellular Automata on Networks (CAoN) is a natural extension of Cellular Automata that is able to model networks with non-geometric neighbor connections. It is powerful when modeling networks whose topology is evolving based on local rules. As the goal is to build a decentralized blockchain system with dynamic topology, CAoN is a natural model for the system.


### Efficient Decentralization

Due to the dynamical nature of NKN, network topology between nodes is
constantly updating. Proper updating mechanism is critical to achieve
decentralization of the resulting topology. If, for example, the
updating mechanism is chosen such that a newly joined node has higher
chance to choose node with more neighbors to be its neighbor, and the
probability to choose a node is proportional to the degree of that
node, then the resulting network will be scale-free: the degree
distribution follows a power law form. Such networks have centralized
hubs defined by nodes with huge degree. Although hubs could
potentially increase efficiency, they make network less robust as the
failure of hubs will have much larger impact than the failure of other
nodes.

One of the NKN's goals is to design and build networks that are
decentralized while still being efficient in information
transmission. This should be done by using a proper topology updating
mechanism that considers both algorithm and incentive. On the
algorithm side, neighbors should be sampled and chosen randomly; on
the incentive side, reward for data transmission should be sublinear
(grows slower than linear function) so that hubs are
discouraged. Sparse random network is one possible topology that could
be generated from such mechanism. It is decentralized and thus robust
to the failure of any node, while still being efficient in routing due
to its small network diameter.

## Cellular Automata Powered Consensus

Nodes in blockchain are peers due to the decentralized nature of
blockchain. The inherent lack of trust in blockchain systems is
particularly noteworthy because any node can send any information to
any nodes in the blockchain. Peers must evaluate information and make
agreement on their actions for blockchain to work properly.

NKN is designed to be a futuristic blockchain infrastructure that
requires low latency, high bandwidth, extremely high scalability and
low cost to reach consensus. These properties are crucial for future
DApps. Thus, NKN needs new consensus algorithms that could satisfy
such high requirements.

### CA Consensus Modelled by Ising

Cellular Automata (CA) is naturally a large distributed system with
only local connections. The asymptotic behavior of the system is
controlled by its updating rule. It is possible to achieve guaranteed
global consensus in CA using message passing algorithm based only on
sparse local neighbors for a set of updating rules.

### Majority Vote Cellular Automata

Majority Vote Cellular Automata (MVCA) is a Cellular Automata using
majority vote as updating rule.

Using the mathematical framework originally developed for Ising model
in physics, we found and proved that a class of CA rules will
guarantee to reach consensus in at most O(N) iterations using only
states of sparse neighbors by an exact map from CA to zero temperature
Ising model. Some studies investigated the fault tolerance of Cellular
Automata and how to increase robustness in Cellular Automata-Based
systems. We further showed that the result is robust to random and
malicious faulty nodes and compute the threshold when desired
consensus cannot be made.

### Proof of Relay

Consensus in NKN is driven by Proof of Relay (PoR), a useful Proof of
Work (PoW) where the expected rewards a node gets depend on its
network connectivity and data transmission power. Node proves its
relay workload by adding digital signature when forwarding data, which
is then accepted by the system through consensus algorithm.

PoR is not a waste of resources since the work performed in PoR
benefits the whole network by providing more transmission power. The
"mining" is redefined as contributing to the data transmission layer,
and the only way to get more rewards is providing more transmission
power. The competition between nodes in the network will eventually
drive the system towards the direction of low latency, high bandwidth
data transmission network.

PoR is used for both token mining and transaction verification. On the
one hand, token will be rewarded to nodes for data transmission; on
the other hand, the expected reward for transaction verification may
also depend on PoR, either through election or difficulty adjustment.

## Potential Attacks

Since NKN is designed with attack prevention in mind, it is necessary
to review related attack types. Attack analysis and mitigation will be
one of the important aspects of NKN development and future work.

- Double spending attack. Double spending attack refers to the case
  where the same token is spent more than once. In classic blockchain
  systems, nodes prevent double-spending attack by consensus to
  confirm the transaction sequence.

- Sybil Attacks. Sybil attack refers to the case where malicious node
  pretends to be multiple users. Malicious miners can pretend to
  deliver more copies and get paid. Physical forwarding is done by
  creating multiple Sybil identities, but only transmitting data once.

- Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attacks. An off-line resource centric attack
  is known as a denial of service attack (DoS). For example, an
  attacker may want to target a specific account and prevent the
  account holder from posting transactions.

- Quality-of-Service (QoS) Attacks.  Some attackers want to slow down
  the system performance, potentially reducing the amount of network
  connectivity and data transfer speed.

- Eclipse Attack. An attacker controls the P2P communication network
  and manipulates a node's neighbors so that it only communicates with
  malicious nodes. The vulnerability of the network to eclipse attack
  depends on the peer sampling algorithm, and can be reduced by
  carefully choosing neighbors.

- Selfish Mining Attacks. In a selfish mining strategy, the selfish
  miners maintain two blockchains, one public and one
  private. Initially, the private blockchain is the same as the public
  blockchain. The attacker always mine on the private chain, unless
  the length of the private chain is being caught up by the public
  chain, in which case the attacker publishes the private chain to get
  rewards. The attack essentially lower the threshold of 51% attack as
  it may be more efficient for other miners to mine the private chain
  than the public chain. Yet, as an economic attack, selfish mining
  attack needs to be announced in advance to attract miners.

- Fraud Attacks. Malicious miners can claim large amounts of data to
  be transmitted but efficiently generate data on-demand using
  applets. If the applet is smaller than the actual amount of relay
  data, it increases the likelihood of malicious miners getting block
  bonus.

## Conclusions

First, NKN is an ideal networking platform for developing
decentralized applications. DApp developers can be completely focused
on the creative ideas and innovations that make their products
successful for end users, as well as business logic. They no longer
need to worry about details of network infrastructure.

Second, NKN incentive model encourages more people to join the network
to share and enhance network connectivity and data transmission,
changing the entire network structure and creating a huge market. NKN
is targeting the trillion-dollar telecommunications business, and aim
to provide better connectivity to everyone by incentivize the sharing
of unused networking resources, expanding and revolutionize the
sharing network.

Compare to current systems, NKN blockchain platform is more suitable
for peer-to-peer data transmission and connectivity. In the meantime,
this self-incentivized model encourages more nodes to join the
network, build a flat network structure, implement multi-path routing,
and create a new generation of network transmission structure.

From the perspectives of computing infrastructure innovation, NKN will
revolutionize the blockchain ecosystem by blockchainizing the third
and probably the last pillar of Internet infrastructure, after Bitcoin
and Ethereum blockchainized computing power as well as IPFS and
Filecoin blockchainized storage. Complementing the other two pillars
of the blockchain revolution, NKN will be the next generation
decentralized network that is self-evolving, self-incentivized, and
highly scalable.

NKN is a strategic exploration and innovation of the general network
layer infrastructure delivering the next generation network to other
fields. A highly reliable, secure and decentralized Internet is
essential so that every individual and every industry can achieve
their full potential in the digital world. NKN will offer tremendous
potential for achieving a fully decentralized peer-to-peer system to
make the Internet more efficient, sustainable and secure.

The current network has huge inefficiencies for providing universal
connectivity and access for all information and applications. It's
time to rebuild the network we really need instead of constantly
patching the networks we already own. Let's start building the future
Internet, today.
